# Learning Journey

### Jan 2022 to current - The Odin Project + Other Resources

I want to spend the entirety of 2022 just focusing on JavaScript and learning as much about it as I can. I truely believe the best way to learn is focus on 1 thing otherwise you're constantly restarting your journey learning something new. If you want to be the best programmer, then there is no reason to switch language until you fully understand one language - and at that point it'll be a lot easier. So far I'm really liking The Odin Project, something about the course really excites me and I think it's mostly because there are a lot of other people currently doing the course. When I was doing App Academy, I felt kind of alone and while im a big introvert - it's nice to be able to post something about your course or code on Twitter and have people being able to respond and relate to the same struggles you're trying to overcome. So while I think App Academy open is better, I just didn't feel like the community was very big - at least on Twitter which is where I am mostly when it comes to development things. The one thing I don't like about TOP so far is that I don't think they hammered in the fundamentals enough, maybe this is just because I experienced the App Academy's approach which is to give you an obscene amount of exercises to complete but I definitely missed that. They do recommend other resources for grinding fundamental practice though, and I'm planning to work hard on those after I'm done with my current project. If I feel like those resources really help, then I'll definitely recommend that when you go through TOP yourself to put a good amount of time into those.

The Odin Project tldr review: I'm still going through it and will update this when I'm done but so far I think it's great, they give you a decent amount of projects to practice with and they're also projects that can go into your portfolio. There is a big community around it with people who are also excited to be learning on twitter and discord. I will say, I don't think it hammers in the fundamentals enough but they do give you resources to practice the fundamentals too - i'd HIGHLY recommend putting time into those.

### Dec 2021 - App Academy Open

After doing a lot of research about which course to pursue I found 4 extremely promising options: Colt Steeles Udemy webdev course, Amanda Yu's Udemy webdev course, The Odin Project or App Academy Open. I also ran into a really well set up guide from P1xt over at https://github.com/P1xt/p1xt-guides for learning CS, programming and even specializing in webdev. P1xt recommends App Academy, and I even talked to her about it on Twitter and she convinced me it was the way to go so I decided to give it a shot. However, I was constantly anxious about learning Ruby since my end goal was going to be JavaScript. AppAcademy Open is absolutely incredible, and the thing I love about it the most is that it really pounds the fundamentals into you by making you do sooo many fundamental programming exercises. I wish every programming course just made you do this many exercises because I really do think it's the best way for beginners to learn. Unfortunately, I was still anxious about learning Ruby and decided that for 2022 I will just fully focus on JavaScript. I like having things segmented in my mind like this. I do think if anyone was going to go through App Academy Open fully, it may be one of the best resources out there for learning web dev as a beginner and it's free! Also, I don't think there is anything wrong with learning Ruby first, as once you know one programming language really well, it's easy to pick up another.

App Academy Open tldr review: Incredible course. Probably one of the best out there for learning webdev as a beginner or even just learning programming as a beginner with an emphasis on webdev. If you started with this and went all the way through, you'd be in an amazing position to seek out whichever pathway you'd like with programming. Don't be like me and let Ruby scare you away ;)

### Nov 2021 - CS50x

Decided to research more into learning paths and heard about CS50x as a great introductory course. Was planning and doing 1 hour a night and then it ended up being way more difficult than expected and had to spend much more time than I intended. This was good, as it kinda inspired me to put more time into learning when it comes to programming. I was immersing myself a lot more in programming and realized while I'm interested in lots of disciplines - AI, game dev, ML and others... I decided to start my journey with web development. The reason being is that my regular job (while I absolutely love it) is not very stable and while immersing myself within programming felt like web dev would be the best choice to open up opportunites if my regular job didn't keep paying the bills. Once CS50x got to the HTMl/CSS/JS portion, I decided to move onto another course (AppAcademy Open) which was more focused on webdev instead of finishing off CS50x.

CS50x tldr review: Fantastic course. The instructor is so passionate about programming and really comes through in his lectures. While I actually do think this course may be too difficult for complete beginners - it definitely really inspires you because of how well the lectures are done. I think if I hadn't messed around with programming a little bit before this course I would've struggled massively to get through it. If you're completely new to programming, i'd recommend doing a super easy course for 2 weeks to a month first just to get familiar with super basic programming, maybe a really easy python course or something.

### Mid 2021 - Messing around

Wanted to learn programming as a challenge. Felt like I wasn't being challenged enough mentally with my regular job and just wanted something to learn to stimulate my mind. I did some Python course for a few days which I don't remember which it was and then learned some C# through Head First C# by O'Reilly and the C# path on pluralsight. I was incosistent and ended up forgetting almost all of the knowledge I learned during this period as work picked up and I couldn't spend much time learning.
